Revamp colorpicker overview article (#1383)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/colorpicker/overview.md

# Blazor ColorPicker Overview

The <a href="https://www.telerik.com/blazor-ui/colorpicker" target="_blank">Telerik UI ColorPicker for Blazor</a> is an interactive component that allows users to select colors from a popup palette or a [Hue, Saturation, Value (HSV) canvas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HSL_and_HSV), and also manually type a specific RGB or HEX color value.

Practically, the ColorPicker is identical to the [Telerik UI for Blazor FlatColorPicker component]({%slug flatcolorpicker-overview%}) with the only difference that the ColorPicker takes up less space and displays the color selection UI in a popup.

> ## Creating the Blazor ColorPicker

Reviewer: Articles can be omitted in titles and headings. Also, the component is not one specific instance, so "the" sounds a bit strange.

```suggestion
## Creating Blazor ColorPicker
```

> To create the Telerik UI for Blazor ColorPicker:

Reviewer: Repetitive.

```suggestion
```

1. Add the `TelerikColorPicker` tag.

> 1. Set its `Value` attribute to any of the [supported HEX or RGB formats](#supported-value-formats). by using a `string` property with [one-way]({%slug colorpicker-events%}#valuechanged) or [two-way](#example) binding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set its `string` `Value` parameter to any of the [supported HEX or RGB formats](#supported-value-formats). The parameter supports [two-way binding](#example) or [one-way binding with a `ValueChanged` handler]({%slug colorpicker-events%}#valuechanged).
```

1. (optional) If your app expects a specific color format, set the `ValueFormat` to `ColorFormat.Hex` or `ColorFormat.Rgb`.

>caption A basic ColorPicker with two-way value binding

```CSHTML
<TelerikColorPicker @bind-Value="@MyColor" ValueFormat="ColorFormat.Hex"/>

<p>Selected color: <span style="color: @MyColor">@MyColor</span></p>

@code {
    string MyColor { get; set; }
}
```

## Views

> The Blazor ColorPicker component comes with the Palette and Gradient views which allow users to select a color from an interface that matches their preferences. [Read more about the available Telerik UI for Blazor ColorPicker views.]({%slug colorpicker-views%})

Reviewer: Use more specific words for better SEO

```suggestion
The Blazor [ColorPicker component comes with the Palette and Gradient views]({%slug colorpicker-views%}) which allow users to select a color from an interface that matches their preferences.
```

* (Top) **Clear** button.
* (Middle) Palette tiles or HSV canvas with hue and opacity sliders.
* (Bottom) RGBA or HEX value textboxes with a **Toggle** button.
* (Bottom) **Apply** and **Cancel** buttons.

Clicking outside the ColorPicker popup applies an **Apply** button behavior.

![ColorPicker component](images/colorpicker-overview.gif)

## Events

The Blazor ColorPicker fires a set of events that you can handle to further customize its behavior. [Read more about the Telerik UI for Blazor ColorPicker events]({%slug colorpicker-events%}).

## Supported Value Formats

The Blazor ColorPicker accepts values by the application code in the following formats:

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/coloreditors.md#value-formats)

The ColorPicker does not support color keywords.

## ColorPicker Parameters

The Blazor ColorPicker provides various parameters to configure the component. For more configuration options, see the [public Telerik UI for Blazor ColorPicker API](/blazor-ui/api/Telerik.Blazor.Components.TelerikColorPicker).

The ColorPicker tag exposes the following features through its attributes:

| Parameter | Type and Default Value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | `Value` | `string` | Sets the ColorPicker value in a few [different color formats](#supported-value-formats). Supports two-way binding. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Value` | `string` | The ColorPicker value in a few [different color formats](#supported-value-formats). Supports two-way binding. |
```

> | `ValueFormat` | `ColorFormat` | Sets the color format, which the component will return in the application code. By default, the `ValueFormat` is set to `Rgb`, but it can be changed to `Hex`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ValueFormat` | `ColorFormat` enum <br /> (`Rgb`) | Sets the color format, which the component will return in the application code - `Rgb` or `Hex`. |
```

| `ColorPickerViews` | `RenderFragment` | A nested container to list the [ColorPicker views]({%slug colorpicker-views%}). All views are enabled by default and the user can switch between them with the buttons. Each view tag has its own configuration attributes. |

> | `View` | `ColorPickerView` | Sets the default selected [view]({%slug colorpicker-views%}) (`ColorPickerView.Gradient` by default). Supports two-way binding. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `View` | `ColorPickerView` enum <br /> (`Gradient`) | The default selected [view]({%slug colorpicker-views%}). Supports two-way binding. |
```

> | `ShowPreview` | `bool` | Toggles the [current color box and the color preview box](#interface) in the popup (`true` by default). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ShowPreview` | `bool` <br /> (`true`) | Toggles the visibility of the [current color box and the color preview box](#interface) in the popup. |
```

> | `Class` | `string` | Renders a custom CSS class to the `span.k-colorpicker` element. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Class` | `string` | A custom CSS class for the `span.k-colorpicker` element. |
```

> | `Enabled` | `bool` | Determines if the user can open the popup and change the value (`true` by default).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Enabled` | `bool` <br /> (`true`) | Determines if the user can open the popup and change the value.
```

> | `ShowButtons` | `bool` | Sets the visibility of the **Apply** and **Cancel** buttons (`true` by default).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ShowButtons` | `bool` <br /> (`true`) | Controls the visibility of the **Apply** and **Cancel** buttons.
```

> | `ShowClearButton` | `bool` | Sets the visibility of the **Clear** button.

Reviewer: Is `false` the default value ? If not, we should clarify in the second column.

### Styling and Appearance

The following parameters enable you to customize the appearance of the Blazor ColorPicker:

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `Size` | `Telerik.Blazor.ThemeConstants.ColorPicker.Size` | Adjusts the size of the ColorPicker. |
| `Rounded` | `Telerik.Blazor.ThemeConstants.ColorPicker.Rounded` | Affects the `border-radius` of the ColorPicker. |
| `FillMode` | `Telerik.Blazor.ThemeConstants.ColorPicker.FillMode` | Controls how the ColorPicker is filled. |

For more information on customizing the ColorPicker styling, see the article about [setting the appearance of the ColorPicker]({%slug colorpicker-appearance%}).

> ### Custom Icons

Reviewer: This section can (and should) be replaced with a simple row in the Parameters table above.
